Hello, everyone.
So let us quickly summarize that what we have learned by far through this watered down application.
So from the beginning we have created a notepad class.
We have created menu items as file, edit and health and inside file.
We have added new open save print and exit options inside the edit menu board option we have added cut
copy paste select on and inside the help menu bar.
We have added the about section of this noted down application.
Also, we have added a text area which is the soul of this text editor.
Note ten down.
So then we have also set the title for the main body of the frame which we have created.
We have added the file open save print option to the constructor so that it becomes working.
We have added similarly the edit options to the constructor and then we have created a scroll bar for
the text area.
So where we have created a text area and it is very necessary that it should be scrolling like we can't
type a single line in the code and wait for it to complete this project.
We have to make a proper functioning text editor.
This is the goal of making this application that we can write in finite number of lines in our text
file, edit it, save it, print or whatever we want to do with it.
So it is.
Now every button in the notepad has an action attached to it.
Like if we click in the new file, we have to open a new window in that notepad.
When we click on the Open File Action Listener button, we have to open a file from our computer like
a previously saved file, already present existing file in our computer.
And if we click on the save button, then we there the computer desktop or wherever we want to save
save it.
It should open similarly for exit cut and copy.
So now.
Yes.
So the action performed.
Event is called here as a function and it has various conditional operators if inside a ls.
So for the new option we have created if conditional loop, which says that by default this app opens
up and a new window is open by default, which is initially set to null, the text inside the text area
is set to null.
Similarly, we add once we have to click only one button so that if we click on the new button, then
this action is going to be performed if we clicking on.
So let me first add the options to it like we have.
Save button inside the file menu bar.
We have print option.
We have an exit button which helps us to escape through the application.
We have edit options such as cut, copy, paste as if we are writing something.
The main use is of copying and pasting.
Like suppose we have to paste some data from another resource.
Then we have to use this paste option.
So suppose if the application does not contain a paste option, is it fruitful?
No, not at all.
The paste option is very important.
So adding it to the queue selection.
Suppose we have to write this text.
Like suppose we are composing an email or something like that.
So we have we want to write it in the notepad in the offline mode.
So we wrote the content and want to select all at once with a single shortcut button or with a mouse
with a single click.
So this select all option contains that feature and about buttons, which gives us an intro about this.
Now let us check what is left.
We have an open new save print exit, cut, copy, paste, select all.
And I think we have covered all of them.
Yes.
New open save print exit.
We have total of ten scenes which I need to be action lesson.
So one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten.
So yes, we are done.
So let's remove this extra one.
Yes.
So customize this save button.
Like what?
Action to be perform.
When we click the save button, we have already decided that what is going to happen when you click
that new button?
Now an action should be attached with the save button as well.
So if we write some text in the notepad, we want to save it.
So calling the J file chooser component from the String Library of Java Toolkit, we are going to do
the same thing.
So j file chooser naming the method as file chooser and a new keyboard with the J file chooser.
Yes.
So here we are.
This function is invoked here j file chooser.
Now we have two steps.
Select that in which format we want to save our text like we have various extensions attached to file.
You must have seen them in some of them we have dot PDF.
In some of them we have got MP three dot MP for like for videos.
We have extension of dot MP four.
So it is already decided in the program that what action is to be saved, what action, what extension
is to be added to this file.
So in that text field we declare that this text field is going to be saved as a dot extension.
So in initializing this as file name extension filter.
We are going to add a filter that it filters.
That is a text field.
Text ext.
Text filter.
And a new keyword saying that by extension further.
And inputting a string inside this method has only text files.
Only text files?
Yes.
And in brackets, I'm going to add the dot extension like this.
So I think this is done and.
The XD as a string also.
Now closing the statement air.
Now, if we want to save anything, we have to open the file.
Choose our menu from our system.
So how to open that file?
Choose an option.
Like, let me show you what I want to sing.
So on running the program, we have our notepad window.
Let us try to type some random text and suppose we want to save it.
So on clicking on the save button.
That should be a file chooser of our desktop or system should be open so that we can choose that where
we want to save this file.
Like in which folder?
What will be the path where this will be saved?
So let's add a method for that.
So this is going to be as fine chooser.
Not set acceptable filters.
That acceptable file filter used?
Yes, this is the method.
And inside we are going to add the boolean argument as false.
So this is said to be false as we only want dot text files.
So again, file chooser.
And choose the ball.
Fine filter.
And inside this we can only allow the text filter.
We cannot make it as MP three, MP four or anything else.
We just simply want a text filter inside the filter.
So yes, now the action is initialized as in action.
And while chooser.
Tune.
Sure.
Save dialog.
It is not.
So now let us try to run this on running this notepad or Java, clicking on run Java and waiting for
the program to execute.
Yes.
So let's try to type something.
Hello World.
I am Java developer.
Yes, the text is ready now.
Suppose you want to save it.
So initially there were no actions performed by clicking the buttons.
But now you can see that our action is attached to the button.
So on clicking on Save Button Action should perform.
So yes, perfect.
On opening this and clicking the save button, this is open a file chooser option from your system and
you can save it as hello the see there is a text filter which are the only text files we added only
text filter.
So it is showing that.
So hello dot text and click on save.
So they should be saved in your system.
Let us check for it.
Save.
Inside the documents searching for it.
It should be a hell or java.
So there are no files.
There are some more modifications needed to be made in this action list.
So in action and contained or if else, conditional law which says so after adding this try and catch
exception handlers.
Now we can save our files and get to see the results.
So I'm running this.
And that's some random texture like.
Hello, everyone.
And try to save it by clicking on the save button.
Suppose I want to save it in the desktop.
And name it as hello.
Only text file filters as we have created it.
Now let us see that it is saved in the desktop or not.
So when we open again the desktop.
Yes.
So yes.
Hello.
Dot txt successfully saved.
So the save option is completely functional now.
Now for in a similar way, let us try to make this print option also functional.
So for the print case, there is a simple logic which opens the print window.
Stadia doctrine to call this and.
Adding a try and catch exception.
Makes printing things from the notepad very easy.
So inside the catch, we have to call it for being the exception.
Sovereign debt exception.
Interception X, right.
X.
So to try and catch block circle now inside this locker.
Is to be get get longer.
And then inside we have to input us.